Previously, we explored
a few types of malware.
Whether it's installed on an individual
computer or a network server,
all malicious software needs to be
delivered to the target
before it can work.
Phishing and other social engineering
techniques are common ways
for malware to be delivered.
Another way it's spread is using a broad
class of threats known
as web based exploits.
Web-based exploits are malicious code or behavior that's
used to take advantage of coding
flaws in a web application.
Cybercriminals target web-based exploits
to obtain sensitive personal information.
Attacks occur because web applications
interact with multiple users
across multiple networks.
Malicious hackers commonly exploit this
high level of interaction
using injection attacks.
An injection attack is malicious code
inserted into a vulnerable application.
The infected application often
appears to work normally.
That's because the injected code runs
in the background, unknown to the user.
Applications are vulnerable to injection
attacks because they are
programmed to receive data inputs.
This could be something the user types,
clicks, or something one program
is sharing with another.
When coded correctly,
applications should be able
to interpret and handle user inputs.
For example, let's say an application is
expecting the user
to enter a phone number.
This application should validate the input
from the user to make sure the data is
all numbers and not more than ten digits.
If the input from the user doesn't meet
these requirements, the application
should know how to handle it.
Web apps interact with multiple
users across many platforms.
They also have a lot of interactive
objects like images and buttons.
This makes it challenging for developers
to think of all the ways they
should sanitize their input.
A common and dangerous type of injection
attack that's a threat to web
apps is cross-site scripting.
Cross site scripting, or XSS,
is an injection attack that inserts code
into a vulnerable website
or web application.
These attacks are often delivered
by exploiting the two languages used
by most websites, HTML and JavaScript.
Both can give cybercriminals access
to everything that loads
on the infected web page.
This can include session cookies,
geolocation, and even
webcams and microphones.
There are three main types of cross-site
scripting attacks
reflected, stored, and DOM-based.
A reflected XSS attack is an instance
where a malicious script is sent
to the server and activated
during the server's response.
A common example of this is
the search bar of a website.
In a reflected XSS attack,
criminals send their target a web link
that appears to go to a trusted site.
When they click the link, it sends a HTTP
request to the vulnerable site server.
The attacker script is then returned or
reflected back to the
innocent user's browser.
Here, the browser loads the malicious
script because it trusts
the server's response.
With the script loaded,
information like session cookies
are sent back to the attacker.
In a stored XSS attack,
the malicious script isn't hidden in a
link that needs to be sent to the server.
Instead a stored XSS attack is an instance
when malicious script is
injected directly on the server.
Here, attackers target elements
of a site that are served to the user.
This could be things like images
and buttons that load
when the site is visited.
Infected elements activate the malicious
code when a user simply visits the site.
Stored XSS attacks can be damaging because
the user has no way of knowing
the site is infected beforehand.
Finally there's DOM-based XSS. DOM stands
for Document Object Model, which is
basically the source code of a website.
A DOM-based XSS attack is an instance
when malicious script
exists in the web page
a browser loads. Unlike reflected XSS,
these attacks don't need to be
sent to the server to activate.
In a DOM-based attack, a malicious
script can be seen in the URL.
In this example, the website's
URL contains parameter values.
The parameter values reflect
input from the user.
Here, the site allows users
to select color themes.
When the user makes a selection,
it appears as part of the URL.
In a DOM-based attack, criminals change
the parameter that's expecting an input.
For example, they could hide malicious
JavaScript in the HTML tags.
The browser would process the HTML
and execute the JavaScript.
Hackers use these methods of cross-site
scripting to steal sensitive information.
Security analysts should be familiar
with this group of injection attacks.
However, they're not the only ones,
as we'll discover next time.